[THEME MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The thing that made me get
into juicing above anything
else was my own health.
Most people in this
industry, you'll find,
are not here by accident.
But they're here because
they were ill themselves.
And I had some
chronic conditions.
I was covered from head to
foot, literally, in a skin
disorder called psoriasis.
I mean, to the point-- it's
hard to imagine now, of course,
because my skin is
very, very clear--
but I couldn't even wear
a pair of jeans otherwise
my skin would crack.
It was to that extent.
In fact, it was hard to
find clear patches of skin.
It covered my neck,
all of my face.
And it was hard to live with
because people didn't really
understand the condition,
and even today, they don't.
I also had quite bad eczema.
Eczema and psoriasis are seen
as different kind of diseases,
if you will.
And that covered the back of my
knees more than anything else.
The challenge that
I had with that
was, the body tends to repair a
lot quicker overnight than when
you're running around
during the day.
So I would sometimes sleep, and
my knees would kind of curl.
And then, unfortunately,
that would heal over
during the night.
So I'd wake up in the morning
and straighten my leg,
and it would just
crack and and pus.
On top of that, as if I hadn't
already got enough problems,
they decided to give
me asthma as well.
But not just asthma.
I mean, again, there are
varying degrees of all diseases.
I had very severe
asthma to the point
I was taking the ventolin
inhaler, the asthma spray,
anything up to 14 to
16 times every day.
That was the blue one.
But I also had the
brown mom, which
was the steroid-based one.
On top of the asthma--
so of course, I couldn't
breathe, if I moved,
my skin would crack.
On top of that, I
also had hay fever.
Now, for anybody who
thinks hay fever is just
this slightly itchy eye
kind of ailment or disease,
there is a massive spectrum.
I had real hay fever.
I mean real hay
fever to the point
where you can't go outside.
You have to lock yourself
in a room airtight,
try and find a public
building with air conditioning
because you're streaming,
your head is muzzy,
you can't even move.
I mean, I didn't help
myself, of course,
because I was a heavy smoker.
I would smoke anything
from 40 to 60 cigarettes
every single day.
I was also a very heavy drinker.
I mean, I'm from Britain.
So you know, roll
with the punch.
I also eat anything providing
it wasn't green, genuinely.
Anything that looked green
or remotely healthy for you,
I had this preconceived idea
that it wouldn't taste good,
for one.
It wouldn't satisfy me any.
And life's too short.
So that combination, the
whole thing combined,
led me to eventually do
something about my condition.
One of the main reasons why
obesity has gotten out of hand
completely, not just in
America, but throughout most
of Western society--
and as you know, it is
penetrating areas of the globe
that it never used
to penetrate before.
The main reason,
above all else-- yes,
you can cite lack of exercise.
You can cite the fact that
we are eating more on the go.
But fundamentally, the biggest
cause of obesity bar none
is the food itself.
Or, when I say food, what I
mean is, quote unquote, food.
We have been conditioned to
believe that providing it
contains certain elements--
usually protein, carbohydrates
and the right fats--
that that deems as food.
Unfortunately, like
the tobacco companies,
if you go back in the
late 60s, early 70s,
and they knowingly added more
nicotine to cigarettes in order
to make them addictive.
And the way that
cigarettes are addictive
is much in the same way that
certain foods are addictive.
Because you've got
highly intelligent people
throughout the entire globe
who are getting morbidly obese.
They know full well that the
foods that they are consuming
will kill them.
And that's not just eventually,
but on a daily basis,
they are dying a
very slow death.
These are, as I reiterate,
highly intelligent individuals.
Why are they doing this?
They know why they
shouldn't do it,
but they have no idea
why they are doing it.
And I want to clarify something.
I don't mean let's look back
to when I was five or six
years old, or seven
years old, what
was the true causes of me
reaching for this chocolate
bar?
It is so simple.
Look, I used to smoke 40
to 60 cigarettes a day.
Why did I?
You know, I started smoking
when I was at school.
But why?
Because I had a bad day?
I didn't come back to
my mom and say, hey mom,
I had a bad day at school,
can I have a cigarette?
That never occurred.
I started because other
people around me were doing it
and it looked cool,
for cigarettes.
One cigarette led
to a chain reaction,
that then led to another one
and another one and another.
Now, look, I said to
people, look, the reason
why I smoke is
because I enjoy it.
Because I love it.
But I would hit my
head on the pillow
praying that I'd wake up and
become a non-smoker every day.
Every smoker on earth would
love to not want cigarettes
if they could.
There is an invisible
prison, if you will,
that captures people
in the nicotine trap.
The need for a cigarette is
only caused by the last one
because, when you
have a cigarette,
nicotine goes in
your system, nicotine
has to get out of your
system or you will die.
The nicotine content from
just one single cigarette,
if it was injected
directly into your brain,
will kill you immediately.
But they don't want to
kill you immediately.
They want to draw out the
process for at least 60,
70 years to get as
much money as they can.
Now, look, I'm talking
about cigarettes.
Clearly, this is about food.
However, you need to understand
the nature of addiction
so that we can go
on to the food.
When somebody has a
cigarette after they're
withdrawing from nicotine.
They light a cigarette, it
replaces the nicotine back
into their bloodstream.
And they feel better.
They feel good.
But that's like putting
on a pair of tight shoes
to get the pleasure
of taking them off.
Look, when you take off tight
shoes, it's pleasurable.
But nobody in their right
mind would deliberately
walk around in tight shoes
just to get the pleasure
of taking them off.
Now, food is so subtle,
nobody knows what's going on.
Essentially, what
people are doing
is causing themselves massive
amounts of aggravation.
Look, if I was in
the food industry,
what am I looking to do?
I want to sell you more food.
That's all I want to do.
Now, how can I do that?
Now, imagine I'm selling
nuts to squirrels.
Right?
I set up a little
stool, then I'm
going to go and sell
some nuts to squirrels.
How can I do this?
Well, I can either make
them run for 20 hours a day
so they get hungrier, because
they're burning more fuel.
Or cleverly, I can manipulate
it--this is the point--
I can manipulate the chemical
structure of their food
so it now becomes not
fulfilling, but empty.
But gives the impression when
they very first ingest it
that it is the most fulfilling
thing they've ever had.
It's a loss that feels
like they're winning.
So when a smoker has a
cigarette, they feel better.
All they're doing
is ending the low
the previous cigarette created.
In fact, all smokers
are only smoking
to feel like a
non-smoker already feels.
They're trying to get back
to the same position they
were in before they started.
The challenge we have with
food, or in particular, sugar,
is because it's illegal to
give a child a cigarette
and so it should be.
It is illegal to
give a child alcohol.
It's not illegal to give a child
white refined sugar or refined
fat.
Food, as far as I'm
concerned, kills more people
than all drugs on
earth combined.
And, again, to go back to the
beginning, people know this.
Why are highly intelligent
people not stopping?
Because they don't know
the nature of the trap.
They believe when they stop,
they're giving something up.
And if they believe
they're giving it up,
they're making a sacrifice.
So look, if I'm causing
you an aggravation,
a massive aggravation--
I give you an apple.
You've got low blood sugar.
I give you an apple,
it won't touch you.
It won't do anything.
You'll eat, you'll go--
there are so many people
that look in the fridge,
they see salad, they
even see lean proteins.
And they think there
is no food in it
because that's not
what they want.
It's like a drug.
And it's not just like a drug.
It is a drug, but
it's a subtle drug.
And the vast majority of
the Western world's society
are hooked on the drug.
What they need are not lectures
on what they already know.
All they need is a route
out of the trap they're in.
The main reason, above all, why
diets fundamentally don't work,
and cannot work for the
vast majority of people
in the world, is because people
consider diet to be the food
that they're consuming
rather than the mentality.
If you go from-- and
this is how simple it is.
If you cut down on
any food, regardless
of what the food is, if
you say, as of Monday--
it's always a Monday.
Everyone's always going
on a diet on a Monday.
They tend to consume enormous
amounts of food which
from Friday to the Sunday.
Sunday, they tend
to go shopping,
and they put in stuff that
they wouldn't ordinarily
have ever put in, fruits and
vegetables, as an example.
Even though, it's funny, because
I've been on a million diets.
And in the past, when
I went on those diets,
and I was overweight myself, I
would arrive at the checkout.
And when I'd get there, on the
day before my diet would begin,
I would have so
much healthy stuff.
I'd be so proud of my trolley.
And I'd want the checkout
person to say something.
Look, this isn't ordinary.
Look at how much fruit
and veg I've got.
I would then start on
the Monday morning.
And I would immediately
start to feel deprived.
And I think about this, listen,
I could have gone sometimes
until 2 o'clock in the afternoon
not even thinking about food
when I wasn't on a diet, without
consuming any food sometimes.
I'd grab some water,
or sometimes nothing.
I hadn't thought about it.
But the very second I told my
brain that I was on a diet,
I went into the mode of can't.
What I mean by can't is this--
C-A-N-T. Constant and
Never-Ending Tantrum.
It's all it is.
It's constant and it's never
ending, is the tantrum.
Now, if you go through, I
want that, but I can't have it
to I can have it,
but I don't want it,
there's a massive
paradigm shift.
For example, look, if I say,
here's a box of chocolates,
right?
And let's just say you want
to stop eating chocolates.
But you started having the odd
one in front of me like this.
No, help yourself.
And you're just eating them.
Just imagine you're
just eating them.
And then I said to you, oh my,
who gave you those chocolates?
These were experimental
chocolates,
they were never
meant to be there.
Listen, I got a load of
cockroaches, I minced them up.
I put them in with
a load of glass
and a half of full of cow's
milk, I did some chemicals,
I covered them with chocolate
I put them in a box called joy.
And then what I did is, I cut
some advertising Life Sucks
Without Joy in it.
So you were sold on
the whole concept
of this box of chocolates.
But I said to you,
fundamentally,
unfortunately,
there's cockroaches
is in there because
cockroaches, once ingested,
gives off a certain chemical
to make you eat more.
And I am the owner of
the biggest cockroach
farm in the entire world.
And it's my interest to
make you eat cockroaches.
But you won't eat
cockroaches, so I
have to hide them in amongst
the chocolate in order
for you to have them.
So sorry, but that's
what they are.
You ask anybody now if
they have a genuine desire
to eat that chocolate,
they would say no.
Now here's the point
I want to make.
If it's a physical addiction--
this is what people say,
I couldn't help it!
Well, then,
therefore, they still
shouldn't be able to
help it if they went
for that particular chocolate.
But if you remove the desire--
because it is a
point I want to make.
Diets require willpower.
If you successfully want to
change the way you eat forever,
it does not require willpower,
contrary to popular belief.
In fact, anything that you
think of that sounds logical
when it comes to addiction
is the complete opposite.
For example, if you have
two children in a room,
one strong-willed and
one is very weak-willed,
and they both had
a chocolate bar.
And moreover, they both really
wanted that chocolate bar.
If you removed the
mass market chocolate
bar from both of those children
and said, you can't have it,
who's going to keep
their tantrum going
for longer at a
greater intensity
to make sure they get it back?
Bizarrely, it is the
stronger-willed child.
The weaker-willed child
will accept the situation
a lot sooner.
So why is it, then,
strong-willed people
have such difficulty on diets?
It's because, look, if
it's the same two kids,
there's the chocolate
in the room,
and they had no desire for it.
They just didn't want it.
They had no desire
for it at all.
And you said, you can't have it.
They'd look you
and say, OK, fine.
Don't want it anyway.
If you took the chocolate
away from them and said,
you're never having it.
Who would now be in a tantrum?
None of them.
Why?
Because it doesn't
require willpower
if you have no desire.
The key is, look, if you remove
the genuine desire for these
jumped-up, junkie,
sugar-loaded--
it's not food, for
crying out Bananas.
If you see it for what it is--
I was obese.
I was overweight.
And I thought this was food.
In fact, I saw fruits and
vegetables as non-foods.
I figured you're better
off having a shorter
life but a much happier one.
Now I can see it clearly.
It's a trick.
It's a very clever trick.
But once you see,
it becomes easy.
Diets are hard.
Because every single
day, you say, I want it,
but I can't have it.
And the theory is,
you force yourself
into a self-imposed
mental tantrum in the hope
that if you suffer the mental
tantrum for long enough, one
day, time will
solve the problem,
time will heal the wound.
And you'll eventually
reach a stage
where you can tell the world,
have you heard the news?
I've done it.
I've kicked it.
I'm free of the junk food.
But when does that
actually happen?
Two days down the line?
What are you doing, sitting
around waiting for this?
People go to sleep to
get rid of the craving.
If the craving is only in
your mind, 95% of addiction
is psychological.
5% is physical.
Gambling is 100%
psychological and they still
go through the same
withdrawal process.
So good and bad news.
The bad news is, we have the
vast majority of our world
hooked on sugar-loaded food,
refined fat-loaded food,
junkie type food that
actually, incidentally,
they are manipulating in the
way the tobacco companies
did many, many years ago.
And we'll find this out.
We will find this out.
We're starting to do that now.
But we will find this
out in the future.
And they'll look back,
and they'll go, hey,
I remember hearing that.
And the same thing is going on.
That's the bad news.
We've got obesity
and everything that
goes along with it,
from type 2 diabetes,
and so on and so forth.
The good news is, contrary
to what everybody thinks,
it's mind-blowingly simple.
And I know that
I'll get the hairs
on the back of some
people's necks going up,
but it's mind-blowingly
simple to remove yourself
from the diet trap.
And it is a trap.
Of course it's a trap.
Because it goes
against your logic.
You can't do it.
I think very few people--
they reckon something
like 95% of all diets fail.
That means that 5% succeed.
5%.
5%!
But that's diet mentality.
You know, 100% succeed
if they're not on a diet,
they change what
they eat and they see
the other food for what it is.
That is true success.
The main reason why people come
to me more than anybody else,
I guess, is because I've studied
addiction more than anything
else.
And I'm not part of the
state the obvious brigade.
And so the idea is, I
don't say-- if somebody
is overweight, the last
thing they want to hear
is somebody saying,
by the way, you're
overweight, as if they
don't know this fact.
And then, moreover,
you say to them,
if you ate fruits and
vegetables, cut down
on the rubbish and
you did more exercise,
you would be slim and healthy.
Again, just because somebody
is thick physically,
it doesn't make
them thick mentally.
And the more people
realize that these
are normal human beings that are
simply caught in a trap, then
the better.
But of course, most people
come because they're
suffering either
from excess weight
or because I had psoriasis.
So a lot of you think,
well, he managed
to clear his psoriasis, or
his eczema, or his asthma.
A lot of these people when
they first come, they say,
give me a juice to
cure my psoriasis.
And the human body
doesn't work that way.
It is holistic, of course
And you treat all
diseases as one.
And it is corny.
And to be honest,
I was so skeptical.
I would never believed,
and even what I teach.
I've got to be honest with you.
I was a science kind of guy.
I was kind of like,
well, has it been proven?
Is it logical?
And I went through God
knows how many doctors.
I'm not knocking doctors
at all, of course.
Far from it, in fact.
They more than have their place.
But the ones that I had,
and you can't generalize
by whole industry, they
were part of the state
the obvious brigade.
That's all they did.
They said, Jason, you've
got severe asthma.
And you're a smoker.
If you stop smoking, your
asthma would improve.
Oh, really?
You friggin' genius!
You know, I'm addicted.
I'm dying to stop smoking.
And this guy tells me as if I
[? hadn't ?] [? cocked ?] it.
Oh, I hadn't realized!
And the amount of
people that do that--
they say, I'm eating too much,
I'm smoking, I'm drinking.
That was another one.
Oh, you're drinking
heavily, Jason.
Do you know that's like
a fire in your system,
and that's causing some of
your skin to be on fire.
Just stop drinking.
Oh, yes, again, silly me.
I'll just stop drinking alcohol.
Because it's not an addictive
substance, I'll just stop it.
And the same with cigarettes.
But more with food, they do
it all the time with food.
So people, I think,
come to see me--
thank the lord they do--
because I don't treat
them like they're idiots.
I say, look, by the way, I
know what you're going through.
And listen, we're
not going to go back
and redress to what
happened when you were five
and you turned to a burger
because you got told off.
That's not the reason why
you're eating burgers!
The reason why
you're eating burgers
is because they're
loaded with fat, salt
and sugar, and a certain
combination which
manipulates your mind.
And you don't understand
why you're doing it.
You know why you
shouldn't do it,
but you don't know
why you are doing it.
So they get a little
bit of respite.
Yes, I do the practical
stuff to say, look, here's
the fruits and veg.
But they know-- this is the
point-- they know there's not
a person watching this that
couldn't write themselves
their own perfect diet plan.
Everybody can.
They know what to do.
They don't do what they know,
not because they're lazy,
not because they're
pigs, or anything else.
It's because they're in this
subtle, genius confidence trick
that deludes so many people.
And it's like a Rubik's cube,
that little cube in the 80s,
that you had to
get all the sides.
It seems impossible.
Because everybody's trying
to do it the same way.
But the very second you
have the instructions
and you decide to
follow them, then it
becomes incredibly easy.
And that's what I
suppose, if anything,
I show them the easy way.
Stop driving yourself cuckoo.
And don't take it too serious.
And we don't over-study.
That's the key as well.
Listen, even the top
scientists in the world
can only tell you, roughly, 30%
to 40% of what's in an apple.
And they'll try and
name that stuff too.
They got some great names too--
bioflavonoids, riboflavin.
And they'll have
vitamins and minerals.
And because so many
people can gurgitate,
and they've read books
upon books upon books,
they think that they know more
about this apple than whoever
created the damn apple.
You will never ever know.
It works synergistically.
The only thing I teach
sometimes-- people
say, well, if it's so
perfect, why do you juice?
Because, look, it's not so
much you are what you eat.
It's you are what
you manage to absorb.
And the vast majority of people
have a beaten-up digestive
system through years of rubbish.
And so we just show them, look,
it is the juice of the fiber
that feeds you--
of course it is--
In the vast majority of
fruits and vegetables.
So if we can remove
that juice and make
it flow through the
blood, then you're
feeding yourself on
a cellular level.
And to be honest, most people
are overfed and undernourished.
They're overfed
and undernourished.
If I'm feeding myself tons
of junk, and my body says,
hey, I asked for some food.
I said, well, I thought
I just gave it to you.
That's according
to the advertisers.
The conditioners, the
brain-washers, and also
the people that
manipulate the food.
So I put this stuff
in and it says, look,
I'm going to have to
turn this into something.
So it starts talking
to each other.
You can imagine how much
goes into the stomach.
The stomach wants an apple, man.
You put Christmas
dinner in there!
This is what on
earth are you doing?
It then has to try
and shove it into 30
foot worth of intestinal tract.
So it pushes it down
into the intestine.
Intestine says to the
stomach, what are you doing?
This is not my fault,
talk to head office.
So head office then
goes, look, we're
trying to ask him for
some decent stuff,
but this other stuff
keeps coming in.
The whole thing is a mess.
So the idea is to give
the body what it needs,
but to do in a way
that's easy for you.
So I said, look, if you
can't eat, I couldn't eat it.
That's why I've gone to juicing.
People say, you know, you
should eat some cabbage.
Never!
I hate it.
Right?
Listen, even after a long day at
work now, I still don't think,
I can't wait to get home
to eat some raw broccoli.
Call me Mr. Picky.
It's never going to happen.
And for the vast majority of the
living, breathing real world,
that's not going to happen.
So I say if you can't
eat it, drink it.
And because the vast majority
is water-rich, organic content
food.
You feed your body on a cellular
level, you're no longer hungry.
I didn't go on a
diet in the end.
All that happened was, I
went, how come I'm not hungry?
I don't get it.
I'm having a couple of these
juices a day, and they're rich.
And I thought, hang on, I
was overfed, undernourished.
Feed the body what
it needs, you're
no longer as hungry as
you were, so you eat less.
So the chances are
that you live longer.
And when I say live longer,
I don't mean how long
you may live, but I mean today.
If your day ends at 5:00 PM, you
have a short life expectancy.
Because, to me, life
expectancy means what do
I expect to do in my life today.
And if I expect to fall asleep
at 6:00 in front of the telly
and watch 4:00 hours
of TV, I already
have a short life expectancy.
It's not about how you can get
run over by a bus next week,
it's what we're doing today.
Juicing is important
for two main reasons.
People often say to me, well,
why don't we just eat it?
That's a good
question, first of all.
Why don't we just eat it?
We don't.
That's the first
thing to address.
The point is is that
most people don't
consume enough raw
fruits and vegetables
and a spectrum of colors.
So that's the number one.
Secondly, most
people are overfed
and they're undernourished.
And their digestive
system is beaten up
over years and years of years
of trying to digest, extract
the nutrients and
dispose of the waste
of the wrong kind of foods.
As I said, you have 30 feet
worth of intestinal track.
And a lot of that now has got,
literally, crap, if you will,
stuck to it.
So when people say, hey,
you're full of it, man, often,
they really are
literally full of it.
And it affects the
way they think.
It affects everything about you.
When you feel light, you
feel you feel kind of good.
But if you've got
all that blockage,
and your cells are crying out
for genuine vitamins, minerals
macro and micro-nutrients,
and what's coming in
are not the things it's is
asking for, it will turn.
Because it's an ingenious
survival machine,
it will turn it
into usable fuel.
But at what cost to the body?
Moreover, though, it hasn't
been fed efficiently.
So what will happen is.
Although you feel
bloated, you can
feel hungry at the same
time as feeling bloated.
And that's why you can't
really understand it,
the average person.
How come I'm still
hungry is a question
that people keep on
asking themselves?
I should be full.
I'm obese.
I'm overweight.
And it's not just because
the stomach is expanding,
you need to fill the stomach.
It isn't because the
nutrients contained
in those kind of
foods are lacking.
And until you give the body
what it fundamentally requires,
it will keep sending
signals to the brain saying
that I'm hungry.
So what I found was,
when I lived on--
I mean, I lived on nothing
but juice for a long time.
But raw food diet, if
you will, or a majority,
you find that after a very
short period of time--
and the biggest question
that people asked me,
one is, how come
I wasn't hungry?
I was on juices for seven
days, hungry for the first two
or three days.
That was withdrawal from
the drug-like like food.
Once that was gone and
they had a genuine hunger,
then it became very easy.
Juicing is important as well
because it's easy to absorb.
It's the ultimate fast food.
People say, I want
a fast food diet?
Get juicing.
Because if you think
the average dinner
will take anything from 4 to
16 hours to leave the stomach
and for the body
to try and digest.
Freshly extracted juice is a
15 minute nutrient expresse
to health.
That's what it is.
It goes into your
stomach, requires
15 minutes, into your cells.
And also, let's
be fair, you will
consume far more raw
fresh vegetables--
the kind of vegetables you
wouldn't ordinarily eat.
Brussels sprouts, for example.
I hate them, some
people like them.
They've got a natural
insulin regulator,
very good for diabetes,
as an example.
Juiced mixed with a
little bit of pineapple,
a little bit of lime.
You can jazz up some of these
juices so they taste divine.
This almost seems
like an exaggeration.
The level of
improvements that people
have when they go on nothing
but a juice cleanse-- and it's
not a juice fast.
You can only fast on water.
You've got to
remember, this is food.
People say, oh,
is it like a meal
when they have an avocado-based
vegetable smoothie.
Is this a meal replacement?
No, it's a meal.
That's what it is.
How do you define a meal?
It's nutrients.
Once they're living on nothing
but that for seven days,
I have seen, I would say,
just about everything.
And I know it like an
exaggeration, but everything.
We're talking from
irritable bowel syndrome,
Crohn's disease, skin improving,
asthma getting better,
hay fever.
You almost name the
disease of the body, name
the element, whatever it is.
The body only wants to heal.
It's crying out to heal.
That's what it wants to do.
It wants to naturally detoxify.
Only the body can
detoxify itself providing
there's no toxicity coming in.
Otherwise there's
a little backlog.
So can you imagine, you remove
refined sugars, refined fats,
junkie type foods, all
the wheat, the breads,
the man-made foods
going into your body.
And all of the
sudden overnight, you
replace it with high water
content-- that's what it is.
Pure high water content.
Organic, rich, mineral,
vitamin-rich fuel
going into every single
cell in your body
in the most easy to
digest and absorb form,
and with a spectrum of
colors, with everything
the body requires.
What do you think the
body is going to do?
It's not going to
reject this at all.
It's going to look and
say, now I'm on board.
Now you're good to me?
Let me shine for you.
And it will literally feed
the body, remove the toxicity.
The skin starts to glow.
The eyes start to shine.
The hair starts
to grow and shine.
I've seen everything.
Remember, we have had three
different letters over
the years-- not that
many, but three of these--
where we had people
in their latter years
who said that their hair
started to turn back from gray
to black.
Now I had to phone these
people because I thought, no, I
don't believe that.
I don't want to just
buy any of this stuff.
I need to find out,
is this happening?
Now, we run retreats,
and we live on nothing
but juice for seven days.
And I'm on the retreat a
hell of a lot of the time.
I see people that come--
I saw a woman with
arthritis, couldn't walk.
I mean, barely walked.
She came to the family
as the last resort.
We're always the last resort.
We're the alternative.
But anyway, the last
resort is, what?
Nature's finest fruits and
vegetables is the last resort?
The world's gone crazy.
Seriously.
But, whatever,
we're last resort.
[? She comes, ?] and this lady--
in fact, the mountain
that we now use
is a relatively small mountain
on this private island
that we had at the time.
And we now name it
Monica's Mountain.
Because by the end
of just seven days--
this is a woman that could
barely walk, barely move--
she walked up to this
mountain to the top.
It's now called Monica's
Mountain because of Monica!
I've seen everything.
Like I said, skin
improving, this.
But you know, it's the
unquantifiable stuff.
It's the unquantifiable
stuff that, really, science
can't gauge it.
Yeah, you can see
if skin is improved.
You can see if
somebody's lost weight.
That's a given by the way.
That's an absolute given.
I mean, listen,
people will always
lose in between seven to 14
pounds in weight within a week.
Because the body just says,
get rid of this junk now.
It might not all be fat,
but that's what they do.
You can tell if
someone's lost weight.
You can tell if their
skin condition is gone,
or if their arthritis is in
hands have started to improve.
Irritable bowel
syndrome has improved.
Their Crohn's
disease, everything.
But it's the spark, man.
Genuinely, that
spark, that life,
that fire that we
had when we were
kids that just affects
every single element
of your world and your glow.
Sometimes, there's just
one single sentence
that can change everything.
You can go to a
million seminars.
You can read 10,000 books.
But sometimes, one
sentence does it all.
And it did for me.
There was an
87-year-old man living
on the streets of London.
He was homeless,
effectively a tramp.
They did a documentary on him.
Why?
Because he looked amazing.
87 years old.
He had all his own hair.
He had all his own teeth.
He kept them in a
bag-- no, he still had
[? those ?] on his
head and in his mouth.
This guy looked incredible.
And they said,
what's your secret?
Because he was always
whistling around,
he got really well-known around
Barrack Street area in London.
And they said,
what's your secret?
He said, I never,
ever eat junk food.
Never.
And they looked at
him like he was crazy.
This guy is homeless.
And they said, what do you
mean you never eat junk food?
Now, I could see where
the documentary filmmaker
was going, first of all.
He was looking,
like, in disbelief.
Like, first of all,
I don't believe you
because you're homeless,
you don't have choice.
He said to him, you
don't have the choice.
He said, I do have the choice.
He said, I have all this choice.
I've gotten to know the
people down the market.
They give me fruits
and vegetables
at the end of the day.
I've gotten to know
the restaurant people,
they give me lean proteins.
And they said, I suppose when
bread is delivered at 4 o'clock
in the morning to shops,
you steal a loaf of bread.
He said, I never steal, ever
steal, and I don't eat bread.
He said, I told you,
I don't eat junk food.
And then, he came from the usual
perspective, the perspective
of the vast majority of people
out there, thinking, OK, look,
I understand you're
in a position where
you can choose what to eat.
So you can choose
not to eat junk food.
But then he asked him, but why?
As if all the fun is consuming
the junk and the rubbish.
He said, come on,
you're homeless?
Come on, you might as
well enjoy yourself a bit.
He said, well what
on earth makes you
think I'm not enjoying myself?
I love my life.
And you're filming
me so don't forget.
Because I look good.
He said, I look good because
I don't eat junk food.
And then this 80 year old
man said this sentence.
And that was it.
It changed my world completely.
He looked at him, he
said, I'll tell you why.
The one fundamental reason why
I never, ever eat junk food
is because, unless I
look after my body,
I'll have nowhere to live.
And I remember [? to ?]
to hear that again.
He said, unless I
look after my body,
I'll have nowhere to live.
I'll have somewhere to
survive, but nowhere to live.
And this is the world
we got caught up in now.
Because people, now
they're thinking,
I want to own the
biggest mansion.
You own nothing!
It's a 90 year holiday.
Don't get deluded into
thinking you own the car,
you own the house.
It's all part of this
mass game is all it is.
The only thing that determines
where you live is here.
You live in your head.
You live in your body.
I know billionaires that
would gladly trade every ounce
of money they had if I could
just turn the clock back
in order to get their health.
People say, if you
haven't got your health,
you've got nothing--
as they eat another burger.
The thing is, talking
about it is one thing,
doing it is another thing.
But remember, if you don't
look after your body,
you'll have nowhere to live.
OK.
I'm going to illustrate why
detoxing is so important,
and the difference between
health and disease.
Whether you've got a
medical background or not,
this is the simplest
way I can think
of for showing the difference
in health and disease,
and why detoxification
is imperative,
and to remove the pollution
of my environment.
So here we go.
Look, we've got fish in
some clear water here.
Just imagine the fish is
in its own environment
its natural environment.
This clearly is not its
natural environment,
but you you can use
your imagination.
Now, it's going
about its business,
eating what it is meant
to eat, going around
in this clean environment.
Happy little fish.
But then, what happens
if we start pouring in,
for example, some
white refined sugar?
Maybe we start pouring
in some different fats.
Maybe we start adding
in-- you get the idea.
Imagine, the
burgers, the fries--
the years upon years of neglect,
and cigarettes, and alcohol,
and all kinds of stuff.
Now, imagine we now change
that and it becomes very, very
dirty.
The fish is a survival machine.
It is designed to
survive above all else.
Health comes second.
Survival is number one.
So what will happen if it's
swimming around like this
and it started, for example,
to get a little cough.
Now, here's the weird thing.
If it started to cough, it
would go and see a doctor.
So it goes and sees
a little fish doctor.
The fish doctor says, you
need some syrup for the cough.
Now, one look at the
cause of the problem,
just looking at the symptom.
Then, after a little while,
you put some syrup in,
it stops coughing.
The fish is happy again.
It doesn't understand there
is any problem at all.
It starts swimming around
in all the crap again.
And then what happens is,
the little fin at the back
now can't move properly.
It's got kind of
arthritis at the back.
So he goes along to
his doctor again.
He says, hey, doctor,
look, I can't move my fin.
He says, that's OK,
here's some cortisone.
I'm just going to inject your
fin, and now it can move again.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you very much, doctor.
What happens if it
starts to bloat up?
What happens if it starts to
get psoriasis on the skin?
Look, the point I'm
making is this--
this analogy usually
takes a lot longer.
The point is this though--
if it's swimming around
in a polluted environment,
then the body will use its
filtration system to survive.
But at what cost to
his daily health?
But then, we're not
looking at the symptom.
So we're not looking at
the cause of the problem.
What we're doing is trying
to treat the symptom.
So what happens is, if
it gets really bad, then
we go to the doctor.
The doctor will get
some tablets and then
the tablets will then go
into the bowl as well.
The problem is that all
medical drugs are toxic.
Of course, they
are, to some degree.
They're all poisons
to some degree.
So you add to the
whole environment--
Look, I've done talks with
the little goldfish in schools
with children as young as six.
And I say, if you want to help
this fish out, to get better,
what would you do?
And they all shout in
unison, clean the water!
It seems so blatantly obvious.
OK.
It's impossible to slow
down the aging process.
It's impossible.
The amount of people trying to
do that with different creams,
and sauces, and
everything else--
even with natural foods.
They make claims to say,
this will help slow down
the aging process.
I have never nor
will I ever say that
any particular organic,
rich juice will ever
slow down the aging process.
Why?
Because all you can do is do a
million things to speed it up.
You can't do anything
to slow it down.
And that's why people are
trying to slow it down.
Because they do too many
things to speed it up.
You drink caffeine, you
have white, refined sugar,
you have these full stimulants,
speed up the adrenal glands.
It's fight or flight.
Your body thinks it's been
attacked all the time.
Of course it's going to
speed up the aging process.
But you can't really
do anything to slow
it down other
than, have a guess,
getting rid of the rubbish
and then having what
the body fundamentally requires.
It's that easy.
OK.
The right mental state
is of vital importance.
But not positive mental
attitude so much.
That plays a part,
of course it does.
You really need to see
the nature of the traps
for what they are, and
then you're already
in the right frame of mind.
Let me give an example.
To take an old analogy
and go one stage further--
a fly trying to
get out of a room.
The window is open,
slightly ajar.
The stupid fly will go along
and hit the window over and over
and over and over again.
Now, anybody watching the fly
would say, you're a stupid fly.
There's clearly another way.
However, the fly doesn't
see the other way.
What, though, if the advice
that you gave the fly was this--
you're clearly not
positive enough.
You need to change your mindset.
I know what I'll do.
Why don't you get on a plane and
come to a positive thinking fly
seminar.
What I want you to do,
Mr. Fly, is walk along
2000 degrees of burning hot
coals, yelling some mantra.
And at the end, jump up and down
like you can achieve anything.
Then, go back to the glass.
Now the fly is pumped.
It's ready.
It's booming.
It's in a state
like never before.
It goes up to the window,
hits the glass over and over
and over again, says
that seminar was rubbish.
What the seminar didn't
necessarily teach the fly--
getting to a
positive state, yes.
But if you're still going
about something the right way,
you're still not
going to achieve it.
I can get in the best frame of
mind possible to do the Rubik's
cube.
That's not going to help me.
I need the instructions.
I may be in this frame where
I think, yes, I can do it.
But all you need
to do is realize,
there's always another way.
And that's the key thing
above anything else.
There is always another way.
Think, not hard, but smart.
There's always an
easy way to do it
if you know what you're doing.
So yes, attitude is
very, very important.
Of course it is.
But you need the right
attitude to find the right way.
Not just the positive attitude.
That alone very rarely,
if ever, succeeds.
It seems really odd
in today's world
that we have more
than ever before,
and yet we think in
a very lax state.
What I mean by that is,
there is a world of abundance
and an attitude of lack.
And the challenge when you
have an attitude of lack
is that you never feel
grateful for anything.
If you don't feel grateful for
anything, you feel unfulfilled.
And most people are
bitching and moaning
about having to do
certain things instead
of getting the opportunity
to-- in fact, even just saying.
Even when I say it,
I feel different.
If I say, I have to go and
eat fruits or vegetables today
as opposed to, I get the
opportunity to go to any shop
that I want.
I know I live in a
world where I can get
the finest produce on earth.
I'm not even going
to think about it.
I'm going to walk 20
miles to go and get it.
I can just get in my car.
I can walk and get on my bike.
I can just go and grab it.
And I can come home and I've
got the amenities to juice it,
or to eat it, or to steam
it, or whatever it is.
But it's there on
a plate for me.
So I get excited because I
get the opportunity to do it.
Same with moving my body.
I'm very fortunate now
that I live my life by a I
get-the-opportunity-to
attitude rather than I can't be
bothered, or I
have to, attitude.
And the man that really
shaped that for me
was the late Christopher Reeve.
This guy was an
incredible mentor
for many people around
the world, and for me
in particular.
I always used to
have an attitude
with exercising of, oh, well
an hour a day is too much.
Or I wouldn't exercise
for two or three days.
Since I watched the
late Christopher
Reeve say a couple
of sentences, I've
moved my body genuinely
every single day.
In fact, there
won't be a day now
that I will not move my body.
What he said was this--
60% of the population
at the time,
when he was being
interviewed in America,
had just been classed as
either overweight or obese.
And he said the one
thing these people can do
is the one thing that I go
to bed every night and dream
and pray that I could do.
And that is to move my body.
He said, if you've got the
gift of physical movement
but you don't use it, he
said, that is an insult to me
and those people like me
who have lost that gift.
And it is a gift.
I've never seen
as a gift before.
Normally, it's only
when you lose something
that you crave it.
I thought, I'm not going
to wait till I lose it.
It's when I wake
up and I can move,
and I can bounce on
a mini trampoline
or I can play a game of tennis,
I'm so grateful, genuinely.
Is TV making us fatter?
[CHUCKLES]
There's no question.
Of course it is.
Listen, I've got a theory on
the TV and obesity, genuine.
It's not so much--
if you look at it
away from food.
If you just look at it
from a science perspective
on just TVs, and the size--
it's my theory-- the size of TVs
and the size of human beings.
Let's go back in time.
So listen, when there
were one channel, two,
three different TV channels,
and a television screen
was this big, then human
beings were so big.
And then what happened was,
we had four or five channels,
then we went to 10 channels.
And then the TV's
got slightly larger.
We started seeing things
like 22-inch screens.
And humans got bigger.
And then, we had more
and more channels.
We are cable TV.
And then we had TV's
that were 40 inches.
Now, this is the same as
the waist size of a man that
was starting to go up and up.
So they went from
like a 32 waist,
and then it's like
they're to 40 inch.
Now, we have TV's, normal.
Television, not
cinema, this isn't
in the cinema, normal
televisions that are 60 inches.
Some even bigger than that.
But 60 inches in
your front room.
Now, I call it
furniture disease.
All we're doing is we're
sitting on furniture, watching
little bits of furniture.
It's furniture disease.
So when somebody is
overweight and obese, yes,
it's got something to
do with the food we eat.
But they have fundamental
furniture disease.
What a weird world we live in.
What are you doing today?
I'm going to sell furniture.
What are you doing after work?
Well, I'm going to sit on
some more furniture instead
of some more furniture.
What are you doing after that?
Oh, I'm going to
go back into work
and sit on some more furniture
instead of some more furniture.
Are you going to do
anything else this weekend?
Well, I thought I'd go out.
Oh, where are you
going out to the cinema
we can do that I'm going
to sit on on some furniture
and go watch some
more furniture.
Listen, the body was
designed to move.
Listen, the thing that makes
us sit down more than anything
else is television.
And we tend to eat more
when we're watching TV too.
We get into hypnosis
when we're watching TV.
I don't mean to ban TV at all.
But there is no question,
there is a direct correlation,
without any question, between
TV watching and obesity.
You already know the best
way for you to lose weight.
You know, in a way, I could ask,
why have you come to see me?
I can give you a
pen and paper now.
You could write the
ideal exercise plan.
And you could write
down-- you already
know that certain
foods are bad for you.
You know that certain
foods are good for you.
You know if you
cut down on them,
you're going to lose weight.
So therefore, I'm
not going to give you
just a list of what you need
to do in terms of eating or not
eating.
What you need to
is win is to get
your brain into the
right frame, then
we will get your body
into the right frame.
Your body can deal
with those toxins.
You know, normal toxins.
But not the level of
toxicity that most people
are shoving in their body.
Now, if I know your history
once we run through it,
I will guarantee you
that your body is not
liking the level of
pollution that's coming in.
And it's screaming for you to
help it with the detoxification
process.
And that's all it wants.
My definition of
addiction is simply this.
OK.
If the thought of
never doing it again
fills you with an abnormal
fear, then you are hooked.
If it doesn't, you're not.
Example, if my GP said
to me that bananas--
and I'll tell you
now I love bananas--
but if he said bananas
caused psoriasis,
eczema, asthma, obesity.
And he said I found the cause
of all of your problems,
all you have to do is
stop eating bananas.
Now, I would have no
difficulty whatsoever
stopping eating bananas.
I would be disappointed
because I like them.
But I wouldn't have
an emotional pull.
I wouldn't say, have
you heard the news?
I've managed to go two days
without eating a banana.
Now, if I said those
words, I've gone two days
without eating a banana.
That doesn't prove I'm in
control of my banana intake.
It means I have a massive banana
problem by the mere fact I even
have to say it.
You know yourself
if you're addicted
or not by the mere
fact, if you say,
I find it difficult to stop.
Here's another statement
you need to understand.
You cannot have freedom
of genuine choice without
the freedom to also refuse.
You cannot have freedom
of genuine choice without
the freedom to also refuse.
So if you're not free to
refuse sugar on a long term
basis, and you
feel that there is
an emotional pull towards that
chocolate towards [? her, ?]
and you feel there is emotional
pull towards the sugar,
then you are hooked.
Now, it is an invisible prison.
Physically hooked, but
you are mentally hooked.
You become unhooked
the very second
you see it for what it is,
and you don't give it up.
But you get rid of it.
So there's no sacrifice
being made whatsoever.
Sugar is without question the
cocaine of the food world.
It is highly addictive, one
of the most highly addictive
drug-like substances.
But it's a trick
because, of course,
we need sugar in its right form.
So they kind of get away
with hiding that drug
within, quote unquote, food.
And when I say,
quote unquote, food,
I'm not talking about just
the white refined sugar
you add into things,
or on top of things.
Most things contain sugar
or are sugar, in fact.
You think of something
like a croissant-- there
are many people I know
that just say, you know,
I've gone on a sugar-free diet.
And they're sitting
there eating a croissant.
And I think, that's sugar.
What do you think
is going to happen?
As soon as it enters the
bloodstream, that is sugar,
or white bread, you know.
Which, white bread,
incidentally, only cockroaches
will eat white bread in
emergency circumstances.
You know, this is
quite worrying.
You know?
I don't want to go near
something the cockroach is
on the verge about eating.
White bread, certain
pasta, some white rice--
sugar sugar sugar
is in everything.
And refined fats, of course.
They want a nice combination
between the two in order
so that you will be hooked.
But that's what causes
you to feel hungry
that you normally feel.
So many people are
completely deluded these days
into thinking that
they are eating
or drinking healthfully
because of how
they have been conditioned
by, what I call,
big food and big drink.
And it's very clever, of course.
They produce a diet
option of a drink,
or a diet option
of a certain food.
Fat free is a label that
came around in the '80s,
and it's never really gone
away, the anti-fat propaganda.
Now we've got the sugar-free
because people are now
realizing sugar is just as bad.
Here's a few tips.
If it says
sugar-free, it usually
means it is loaded with
artificial sweeteners.
It doesn't mean that
it's any better.
In fact, in many
cases, often worse.
Some of the
artificial sweeteners
have been proven, not
only to have horrific side
effects over a
long period of use,
but they cause
carbohydrate cravings.
So when somebody
has a diet drink
and then wonder why
they're not getting thin,
and why they're craving
even more carbohydrates,
it's because those substances
have been very, very carefully
designed, not to help you--
you don't honestly think they
want to help you, do you?
You must not be deluded here.
They're into just
selling and marketing.
Fat-free normally means
it's loaded with sugar.
I can get a two pound bag
of sugar in my hand now,
and I can put a label
that says 100% fat-free.
The fact that, once
the sugar is ingested,
it will turn into fat in
the body because, why?
Because it says the
sugar level is sky high.
And what does the pancreas do?
It has to secrete
insulin in order
to bring that down
so you don't die.
Insulin is the
fat-producing hormone.
So the two pound bag
of sugar that they
put 100% percent fat-free,
although factually correct,
is unbelievably misleading.
So all this excess energy
comes along and says,
where can we store it?
Short-term places, liver.
But what do we do the excess?
I know what we'll do.
We'll produce some fat
cells, store them in there,
use them later.
Problem is, there's
never a later.
Listen, you start your day with
an orange juice from a cart.
And first thing in the morning,
are you doing the wrong thing?
Well, compared compared to who?
Are you doing the
right thing compared
to many of the people I see?
No.
Listen, any juice that you
buy in a carton or a bottle,
even if it's 100% organic,
it has been heat-treated.
It has been pasteurized.
Some will say it's been
likely pasteurized.
What possible harm can that do?
Let's try an experiment.
Put your head in an oven for
one minute at 1,000 degrees
Fahrenheit, take it out, see
if you haven't been destroyed.
It will destroy the life force
contained within the fruits
and vegetables.
It will lower some of
the vitamin content
and some of the minerals.
The minerals aren't affected
that much by heat, ,
but it's changed the
molecular structure.
Here's an experiment to do.
Get some apple juice.
When you pour it out, it looks
like urine, if we're honest.
The cooked stuff.
It looks like your urine.
It's cooked juice.
Make some freshly extracted
apple juice next to it
and you will see they
are worlds apart.
So the answer is, are you
doing a terrible thing
by having carton juice?
No.
Is it better than
a soda, of course.
But where do you want
your health to be?
Which division do you want?
Do you want fourth division,
if you're on a football team?
Or do you want the premiership?
If you want to go
premiership, you need fresh.
It's by far and away a
different animal to anything
you can buy in-store.
You know, the
anti-fat propaganda
has been going
since the early 80s.
You know, fat is bad.
Fat will make you fat.
And fat doesn't make you fat.
In fact, if anything, if you
went on a zero fat-free diet,
first of all, you'd be dead.
But secondly, if you're on
a low-fat diet of some kind,
you are constantly hungry.
Why?
Because you need the correct
fats and proteins to feel
satiated.
And so therefore, if you
negate that side of what
the body is crying
out for, you'll
be constantly looking for it.
And if you're looking for that,
by the way, in carbohydrates,
you're never going to find it.
So therefore, you
need the avocados,
you need the olive
oils for avocado.
In fact, avocado is
the only food on earth
that you could live
on exclusively.
Because it contains everything.
All the human needs.
I wouldn't particularly want
to live on it exclusively,
I'd have no friends.
But you could.
You need the right fats.
Do not avoid them.
Essential fatty
acids above all else.
You know, you need the right
balance of omega 3, 6 and 9
oils.
I used to be covered
from head to foot
in psoriasis and eczema.
The missing link above
all else with zinc,
selenium, the right kind
of essential fatty acids,
things like lesser
[? thin ?] granules.
Water-- obviously you
need to keep hydrated.
You know, you've
got to remember,
some of the best health experts
in the world, some of the best
juice pioneers, never
even drank water.
And he was completely hydrated.
Never had any cracked
skin or dry skin.
They were getting all of
their water-rich nutrients
from fruits and vegetables.
We shouldn't really feel
anywhere near as dehydrated
as we ordinarily do.
But because we live
in a man-made world,
we've got central heating.
We've got aeroplanes.
We've got abnormal environments.
Not everybody can live
by a lake in the sun.
So taking that in mind, we
need to hydrate, obviously,
as much as we can.
But all the right
food will hydrate you
in exactly the right way.
But you may need some essential
fatty acids on top of that.
Omega 3 6 and 9
Cooked.
Foods versus raw if we use our
intuition and our commonsense,
we are the only
creatures on planet Earth
that cook our food.
You don't see a gorilla
with a barbecue.
So listen, I don't
take notice of science,
how much I should have of
this, this scientific study
says this.
I just look at that.
We're the only creatures
that cook our food.
And we're the only
ones that suffer
from the tremendous amounts
of disease that we do.
The only other animals
that have cooked food
are the animals that we feed,
either in a zoo or in pets.
And these animals are getting
exactly the same diseases
that we are.
Raw food must, must play
a part in your daily life
incidentally, your daily meal.
Don't just think I'll
have a certain percentage
and just have a raw food meal at
night, cooked and then cooked.
You need the right
ratio throughout.
Your body wants raw on
every meal where possible.
And if you can't
eat it, drink it.
That's why I'll often
have a beautiful vegetable
juice and a nice wine glass,
treat it like it's a god.
And I'll have that either
as a starter for a meal
or with a meal.
Just chew it gently
and you're getting
all those live nutrients into
your body at every single meal.
The thing is that when it
comes to thinning hair,
receding hair, it's
the holy grail.
Isn't it?
The cure for baldness
is what everybody wants.
Again, it's prevention
rather than cure.
I think genetics clearly
plays a part in this as well.
It's not all down to just
pure nutrition, of course.
I think those that say that
putting a little bit of wheat
grass juice on your head and
the follicles will grow back,
I'm quite skeptical of that.
Even as the juice guy.
I have had cases where
people's hair has got thicker
through having the
right nutrients.
I've had cases where people's
have gone from gray back
to black.
However, there isn't one
specific juice that will do.
I just think the
earlier that we can
grab the right nutrients--
of course, follicles,
they need nutrients.
So it seems to make common
sense that, as long as you're
providing the body
with what it needs,
it's less likely to recede.
It doesn't mean
it's a guarantee,
but it's less likely to.
My common sense and intuition
tells me that above all else.
Never ever count calories.
Listen, one way to waste
your life, count calories.
What are you doing?
What are you doing that for?
Who made up calories?
What are we doing here
counting calories.
You know, one grape
has nine calories in.
So we work that out!
What are you doing?
There isn't a
squirrel on earth that
ever looks at its nuts,
so to speak, and thinks,
I wonder how many
calories are in this nut?
It hasn't got to worry.
If you're eating the right
foods, then all that happens
is the body says, I've
had enough to eat.
So stop eating.
If you're eating
manipulated food,
they are designing food to make
you hungrier than you normally
feel.
So therefore, you don't know.
They create additional hungers.
So of course, as soon as you
have some of that kind of food,
you go, oh, I feel good.
Why?
Because you've ended a hunger.
Ending a hunger was
meant to feel good.
But not these abnormal hungers,
like a million of them.
Now I think just my own
opinion, and this is an opinion,
that you've been told that
the sun is bad for you.
It could be by some people
who've done experiments
into showing why
you'd need sunblock,
the sunblock that
perhaps they sell.
You've got to remember,
some of the highest cases
of skin cancers in the world
are wear sunblock is used.
Not so much where the
sun is at its highest.
When it comes to sun, we need
vitamin D. We need sunshine.
Our body craves sunshine.
We feel better in sunshine.
People look better
with sunshine.
They look great with a color.
Should you lie in 50
degree temperatures all day
long with baby oil on?
Hello, McFly, clearly not.
Nobody would.
That's just common sense.
Do we need a little
bit of sun every day?
Yeah.
20 minutes in the morning,
20 minutes at night.
I love the sun.
I'm a bit of a sun worshipper.
I love lying in the
sun, reading a book.
And I always feel better.
It takes more energy to try and
digest the wrong kinds of foods
than anything else you will do.
When somebody finishes
running a marathon,
even when they're 87
years old-- there's
a lady in the London
Marathon last year.
At the end of
running 26.2 miles,
they got an interview from her.
She had the energy
for an interview.
You try interviewing somebody
after they've finished
eating their Christmas dinner.
They are in a coma.
Why?
Because the body doesn't
have enough energy
to keep them alive and
awake at the same time.
I wish I was joking.
So it shuts down all the system.
Now, it does that to a lesser
degree with every single meal
that you have if it doesn't have
the right nutrients contained.
You shouldn't feel tired
after lunchtime at all.
You only feel tired--
Would you ever feel tired
after you've eaten an apple?
An orange?
A banana?
You can't feel tired
after you eat a salad.
You only get tired after you've
eaten wrong kinds of foods,
simply because it takes more
nerve energy to try and digest
the wrong kind of foods than
anything else you will do.
You want more energy?
Eat less.
[CHUCKLES]
Listen, I hated
being overweight.
There isn't a person out there
that says that they're fat
and they're happy.
They say it externally
in the same way
that a smoker would say,
I enjoy my cigarettes.
But you know secretly everybody
who's obese or overweight
would love to wake
up the next morning
and be slim and healthy, and to
be able to wear what they want.
I was frustrated because it did
affect my skin as well, what
I was eating.
And asthma as well, and eczema.
But the obesity really
got to me, the overweight.
I had bigger breasts
than my mother,
which is never a good
look for a guy, you know.
I wouldn't take off my shirt.
To not be able to
wear what you want,
people don't focus
on that enough.
But to be able to just
go to your wardrobe
and don't think about it,
to be able to wear anything,
is one of the joys of managing
to get my diet the way
that I wanted it.
I knew what I needed to do
to change my diet in terms
of what to eat.
I knew that fruits and
vegetables were good for me.
I knew that salads were great.
I knew the junk was
rubbish for me I knew.
And I knew it was
causing my obesity.
But I just didn't seem to be
able to stop consuming it.
And I never understood why.
And it was only when I
understood that I wasn't eating
as a response to emotion.
I was eating certain things
So I never said, I've had a bad
day at work, I need a grape.
I've had a bad day today
because I crashed my car,
somebody give me a mango.
It was always fat,
salt and sugar.
And I thought, there
is a distinction.
Yes!
I stopped smoking, stopped
drinking, but I thought,
I can't stop eating.
That was the last
one, the obesity.
But I can't stop eating,
that was my excuse.
Yes, but is there a category
between normal foods and drug
foods?
Fortunately, I was
the first person,
when the book was released
back in early 2000,
to coin the phrase drug food.
Michael Jacobson, in 1972,
termed the phrase junk food,
a term that was never
used before 1972.
And since I invented,
if you will, or created,
the expression, drug food is
now being used more and more.
There isn't such thing as
junk food, there's junk i.e.
It's junkie food.
And that's why the
rational thinking person,
I consider myself to be a
relatively intelligent person.
I knew what I was doing
I was killing myself
with my knife and fork.
But why couldn't I stop?
Was I stupid?
No.
I was caught in what I now
call the diet trap and the food
trap.
I'm blessed that, not
only did I find a way out,
and it was easy.
But I now have the good
fortune to travel the world,
travel the globe, and
show as many people
as possible this very
simple food trick.
Once understood,
[? they're ?] possible
freedom for most people
around the globe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]